# Design Partern


https://github.com/DovAmir/awesome-design-patterns
https://java-design-patterns.com/zh/patterns/
https://github.com/kamranahmedse/design-patterns-for-humans#-observer
https://github.com/senghoo/golang-design-pattern/blob/master/04_factory_method/factorymethod.go

Design patterns are accumulative best practices and experiences that software professionals used over the years to solve the general problem by – trial and error – they faced during software development. The Gang of Four (GOF, refers to Eric Gamma, Richard Helm, Ralf Johnson, and John Vlissides) wrote a book in 1994 titled with “Design Pattern – Elements of reusable object-oriented software” in which they suggested that design patterns are based on two main principles of object-oriented design:

- Develop to an interface, not to an implementation.
- Favor object composition over inheritance.


OO设计

采用良好的oo软件设计原则

关注保持设计的简洁

我们设计系统的时候经常需要遵循一个哲学原则 Occam's Razor —— 能达到目的的各种手段里我们选择最简单的那个

设计原则：

1. 把应用中可能需要变化的部分取出并“封装”起来，以便以后轻易改动或扩充此部分，而不影响不需要变化的其他部分。代码变化引起的不经意后果变少，系统变得更有弹性。
2. 针对接口编程，而不是针对实现编程。分开的类专门提供接口的实现。
3. 为了交互对象之间的松耦合设计而努力。





Observer 

观察者模式：定义了对象之间一对多依赖关系，当一个对象改变状态时，它的所有依赖者都会收到通知并自动更新。

报纸订阅服务中出版者和观察者的关系





继承

接口

## 创建型

**1. Creational design patterns:** 

Provide a way to create objects while hiding the creation logic. Thus, the object creation is to be done without instantiating objects directly with the “New” keyword to gives the flexibility to decide which objects need to be created for a given use case. The creational design patterns are:

- **Abstract factory pattern:** provide an interface to create objects without specifying the classes.
- **Singleton pattern:** provide only a single instance of the calls and global access to this instance.
- **Builder Pattern:** Separate the construction from representation and allows the same construction to create multiple representations.
- **Prototype pattern:** creating duplicate without affecting the performance and memory. So the duplicate object is built from the skeleton of an existing object.
- 
### 抽象工厂模式

## 结构型

**2. Structural patterns:** 

Concerned with class and object composition. The Structural design patterns are:

- **Adapter pattern:** it works as a bridge between two incompatible interfaces and combines their capabilities.
- **Bridge pattern:** provide a way to decouple the abstraction from its implementation.
- **Filter pattern:** Also known as criteria pattern, it provides a way to filter a set of objects using different criteria and chaining them in a decoupled way through logical operations.
- **Composite pattern:** provide a way to treat a group of objects in a similar way as a single object. It composes objects in term of a tree structure to represent part as well as a whole hierarchy
- **Decorator pattern:** allows adding new functionality to an existing object without altering its structure.
- **Façade pattern:** provide a unified interface to a set of interfaces.it hides the complexities of the system and provides an interface to the client using which the client can access the system.
- **Flyweight pattern:** reduce the number of objects created and to decrease memory footprint and increase performance. It helps in reusing already existing similar kind objects by storing them and creates a new object when no matching object is found.
- **Proxy pattern:** provides a place holder to another object to control access to it. The object has an original object to interface its functionality to the outer world.
## 行为型

**3. Behavioral patterns:** 

Behavioral patterns are concerned with communications between objects. The following is the list of behavioral patterns:

- **Responsibility pattern:** creates a chain of receiver objects for a request. This pattern decouples the sender and receiver of a request based on the type of request.
- **Command pattern:** it’s a data-driven pattern in which A request is wrapped under an object as command and passed to an invoker object.
- **Interpreter pattern:** provides a way to evaluate language grammar or expression. It involves implementing an expression interface that tells to interpret a particular context. This pattern is used in SQL parsing, symbol processing engine, etc.
- **Iterator pattern:** provides a way to access the elements of a collection object in a sequential manner without any need to know its underlying representation.
- **Mediator pattern:** used to reduce communication complexity between multiple objects or classes. It provides a mediator class that normally handles all the communications between different classes and supports easy maintenance of the code by loose coupling.
- **Memento pattern:** used to restore the state of an object to a previous state.
- **Observer pattern:** used when there is a one-to-many relationship between objects such as if one object is modified, its dependent objects are to be notified automatically.
- **State pattern:** is used to change the class behavior based on its state.
- **Null object pattern:** helps to avoid null references by having a default object.
- **Strategy pattern:** provides a way to change class behavior or its algorithm at run time.
- **Template pattern:** an abstract class exposes defined way(s)/template(s) to execute its methods. Its subclasses can override the method implementation as per need but the invocation is to be in the same way as defined by an abstract class.
- **Visitor pattern:** used to change the executing algorithm of an element class.

## J2EE patterns
**J2EE patterns:** patterns are specifically concerned with the presentation tier. These patterns are identified by Sun Java Center.


## Concurrency patterns

**Concurrency patterns:** such as: balking, join, lock and Thread pool patterns